In the previous video, we started working with functions and took a look at some of the basic stuff.
Now let's go ahead and take a look at another type of functions which are called anonymous functions.
These are functions which do not have a name.
So what good is that?
So let's start with that.
So these are very close to what mathematical functions are.
So you posit a parameter and it's going to square it out plus two X and minus one.
So this is simply an expression that the function is going to return.
The problem with this is once you run it, the function is created and then it's gone because it's an
anonymous function.
By definition, it does not have a name.
That is why it's called Anonymous.
So because it does not have a name now you cannot call it right.
So what good is that function then?
If you cannot call it so, we'll get to why we need this in a minute.
But one way to call this is this bracket.
This whole stuff defines the function and then you call it just as you normally would.
So this is going to be a function which is a generic function, which takes in one argument and that
argument is going to be five.
So five is going to go into X.
So this is going to be five squared, plus two into five minus one.
So this is going to be thirty four.
So twenty five plus ten minus one is thirty four.
Right.
But why do we need this.
Let's set an example and then this is going to make sense.
We're going to take a look at the use of anonymous functions, as well as a couple of other concepts
in this very simple example.
So, for instance, we have a list of numbers over here.
So we have the numbers.
What we want to do is we want to filter out some of the values.
For instance, we want to keep only those values, which are not multiples of three.
Right.
Or we want to get rid of the values which are not multiples of three.
So we want to, let's say, keep six and nine and get rid of everything else, or we want to get rid
of six and nine and keep everything else right.
So we want to apply some sort of a filter.
So we already have a built in function called filter with the bank.
Now, you would remember from the previous video that this means it's going to mutate our collection.
How is it going to mutate, that it's going to take the collection that is going to apply some function
to each element in that collection?
Right.
So failure to function is going to keep only those that satisfy the criteria.
So our criteria is going to be not multiples of three.
So this function is going to have to be defined.
So we're going to define a function, not multiples of three.
This function takes an argument and returns true if that argument is not a multiple of three.
Right.
So.
If three does divided fully, then it is a multiple of three, if it does not divided fully, then it's
not a multiple of three.
If it's not a multiple of three, return.
True.
So it's slightly difficult to get your head around it.
But think about this and this will make sense.
So we have a function that returns true if the number that you postulate is not a multiple of three.
So that is the function.
Now you can call this filter function on these numbers.
So once we do that, we get one, two, four, five, seven, eight, three wasn't there and he was
six goes away and nine goes away.
Right.
So the way this works is you take one.
You positive this function one, module three is not equal to zero.
It returns.
True.
And that means this is going to stay on the list.
Then you pass two four five menubar six to eight six goes over here.
This returns false and that means it's going to be dropped from the resulting list.
So that's how this works.
So you've seen it now you understand how this works.
The problem that we are concerned with in this video is not filter.
What we are concerned with is that this function, not multiple of three, we wanted it just for the
sake of this filter.
And now our filter call and this function are separated from each other.
That is one problem, because now you have to go out and take a look at what is not multiple of three
is the other problem is this not a multiple of three is going to remain in your memory and you're not
even going to use it again.
So what we want to do is we want to not have this function sitting over here.
We are going to create this as an anonymous function so that it's created.
And then once we've used it, it goes away.
Right.
So that is how we're going to do this.
Let's go ahead and rewrite the filter.
So these are numbers, the same numbers as we had before.
And now we are going to over here not be a function name, but we are going to pass the function itself.
So this is going to do the exact same thing.
It's going to take numbers for each of the elements is going to apply this function.
And this is the exact same function as we had over here.
The only difference is that it does not have a name.
It takes an argument and it returns.
True, if that argument is not divided fully by three, it's the exact same function, except now it
does not have a name.
So once you do this, you get the exact same result.
So one, two, four, five, seven, eight.
The good thing with this logic now is the stuff that we are trying to filter out, the semantics of
are filtering are now in the same line and this function is going to go away and it's not going to clog
up our memory.
So this is really useful and it's very pervasive in scientific computing, in functional programming.
People do this very often.
So we're going to come across anonymous functions again and again.
And at first glance, this looks really complicated.
But once you get used to it a little bit, this is a really good way of writing your code because it
brings in your logic, your constraints and the manipulation that you're trying to do in a single line.
So this is really useful.
So that's the whole concept that we wanted.
Let's take a look at something slightly cooler in Julia.
So what we can do is because not equal to this operator itself is defined as a function.
We can give it another name.
So let's have the same numbers again.
And we are going to define this guy over here, not equal to Simbel to be equal, do not equal to.
So this is going to be really weird.
I'm going to say this again, the same, but not equal.
Do we are defining it as not equal to.
Right.
So it's the same thing.
How do you write this.
So you say slash any and then you hit tab and it's going to get converted automatically by the Jupiter
notebook as not equal to Simbel.
So you write that you get an added overhead because not equal to has already been defined in Yemen and
some of the previous versions of Julia.
This was not defined.
So we could define it like this.
But the point is this not equal to now is the same as this guy over here.
So you can go ahead and rewrite your anonymous function as X maps to export industry is not equal to
zero exact same thing, except now this is a lot closer to the mathematical definition that we typically
see in research papers.
So this is going to, again, work exactly the same.
The only difference is in visual appearance of this versus this.
So this is more code oriented and this is more mathematics oriented.
So that was a side note.
Let's go ahead and finish this video by taking a look at another operator, which is slightly lesser
known because it's kind of unique to Julia and it really creates problems for people who move to Julia
from other languages.
So this is called the Splatting and slobbing operator.
Really weird to say this, but very easy to explain using an example.
So let's say you have Pringle's functionality here that takes three values and just outputs them.
Right.
So if you try to call Pringle's one, two, three, that works just as expected.
But if your values are in a list, right.
So we have values in a list, you can pass it to print values and use values and three dots.
So dot, dot, dot, just three.
What this is going to do is it's going to Splatt Devil's array, essentially creating three different
parameters and these are going to go into A, B and C, right.
So this works just like that.
So if you try to parse it, just valse it's going to give you an editor because you are trying to pass
a single array to this print function, which it doesn't, except it needs three arguments.
But if you do the splatting that essentially unwinds the array and creates three arguments and those
are bastardy function, you can also do the opposite of this.
For instance, if you have add value and this expects an array, but you have the values in different
variables.
So if you try to do add value.
This is not going to work.
But you can add DataDot over here to the parameter.
And once you try to do this, apples, bananas, strawberry, these are going to be slurped together
and an array is going to be created that is going to pass to the collection Madewell.
So this works perfectly fine.
Now, I do not recommend that you try to do this yourself when you're just getting started with Julia,
but you are going to come across these operators, so you should be aware of what they mean.
You can actually go ahead and use this right now.
So if you say A comma, B is equal to one to four.
This is.
Going to go there, so it takes the value of one BTX, the value of two, it's expected that in a future
region of Judea you might have a comma because you would want to force or is going to hold one and is
going to hold to come for but for right now, if you try to do this, you're going to get an error rate.
So this is not work.
So this does not work.
But you have to be aware that if you try to pass three things onto two variables, this is going to
be different from what you might be comfortable with in Python.
So that's all the difference is that we had when you were coming to Julia.
So this was a lot of syntax.
I do recommend that you go through these two videos again so that you are comfortable with this.
In the next video, we are going to take a look at how some of these things combine together to facilitate
functional programming.